A growing interest in energy to reduce human influence towards the environment have led to significant advancements in the sector of renewable energy in recent years. The rise in overall energy consumption can be featured to several factors like population growth, technological advancements, improving daily environments, growing urbanization, and globalization. Regarding the sources of modern power generation, solar cells are seen as a suitable alternative for fossil fuels. The third generation solar structures based on perovskite materials are turning into more common because of their low marginal cost as well as higher efficiency. Tandem structure allows them to collect wider spectrum of sunlight and exceed the overall performance of the single junction solar cells. In this thesis work, various Methylammonium based potential perovskite materials were investigated for the top sub cell of tandem solar cell. Methylammonium Tin Bromide (MASnBr3) is introduced as the tandem top cell and several bottom cells based on Silicon (c-Si), Germanium Telluride (GeTe), Copper Indium Diselenide (CuInSe2) were designed. The tandem structure consisting of MASnBr3 top cell and CuInSe2 bottom cell has showed the best device performance with PCE of 41.68% (Voc= 1.71 volts, Jsc= 30.55 mA/cm2, FF= 80.07%). Superior efficiency was achieved because of the lower bandgap of the bottom cell and higher bandgap of the top cell material. The cell also showed good thermal stability with a temperature coefficient of -0.095%/oC which makes our designed solar cell equally stable and efficient. The designed and proposed perovskite-based tandem solar cells can be further investigated for further performace improvements.
